# KoviD LKM

     ██ ▄█▀ ▒█████   ██▒   █▓ ██▓▓█████▄
     ██▄█▒ ▒██▒  ██▒▓██░   █▒▓██▒▒██▀ ██▌
    ▓███▄░ ▒██░  ██▒ ▓██  █▒░▒██▒░██   █▌
    ▓██ █▄ ▒██   ██░  ▒██ █░░░██░░▓█▄   ▌
    ▒██▒ █▄░ ████▓▒░   ▒▀█░  ░██░░▒████▓
    ▒ ▒▒ ▓▒░ ▒░▒░▒░    ░ ▐░  ░▓   ▒▒▓  ▒
    ░ ░▒ ▒░  ░ ▒ ▒░    ░ ░░   ▒ ░ ░ ▒  ▒
    ░ ░░ ░ ░ ░ ░ ▒       ░░   ▒ ░ ░ ░  ░
    ░  ░       ░ ░        ░   ░     ░
                         ░        ░

## 1 - About

    KoviD rootkit is a full-featured Loadable Kernel Module (LKM) designed
    for use with Linux Kernel version 5 and later.

    Key Features include:

    Self-hiding (module) even from SysFS.
    Provides 4 multi-user shell reverse backdoors.
    Conceals processes from the proc file system in userspace, not
    through unreliable methods. Properly handles child processes,
    newly created processes, and more. Hides KauditD logs, syslogs,
    user presence, and more.
    Conceals CPU usage for all hidden tasks.
    Grants root privileges.
    Hides files and directories, among other capabilities.
    Explore KoviD Demos in the KoviD Demos repository.

    KoviD rootkit is a full-feature LKM intended for use against
    Linux kernel v5+

Watch [KoviD Demos](https://github.com/carloslack/kv-demos/tree/master)

### 1.1 Compatible systems

    CentOS Linux release 8.3.2011
    4.18.0-240.22.1.el8_3.x86_64 #1 SMP Thu Apr 8 19:01:30 UTC 2021 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
    gcc (GCC) 8.3.1 20191121 (Red Hat 8.3.1-5)

    Debian GNU/Linux 10
    Linux debian10teste 4.19.0-18-amd64 #1 SMP Debian 4.19.208-1 (2021-09-29) x86_64 GNU/Linux
    gcc (Debian 8.3.0-6) 8.3.0

    Ubuntu 18.04.5 LTS
    Linux ubuntu 5.4.0-89-generic #100~18.04.1-Ubuntu SMP Wed Sep 29 10:59:42 UTC 2021 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
    gcc (Ubuntu 7.5.0-3ubuntu1~18.04) 7.5.0

    Ubuntu 20.10
    Linux ubuntu 5.8.0-55-generic #62-Ubuntu SMP Tue Jun 1 08:21:18 UTC 2021 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
    gcc (Ubuntu 10.3.0-1ubuntu1~20.10) 10.3.0

    Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
    Linux 5.15.0-43-generic #46-Ubuntu SMP Tue Jul 12 10:30:17 UTC 2022 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
    gcc (Ubuntu 11.2.0-19ubuntu1) 11.2.0

    Ubuntu 22.04.1 LTS
    Linux hash-virtual-machine 5.19.0-41-generic #42~22.04.1-Ubuntu SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC
    UTC 2 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

## 2 - Features

### 2.1 Hide itself (module)

    KoviD hides itself, making it challenging to detect. It customizes kernel
    code to evade anti-rootkit detectors and disappears
    from /sys/module listings.

### 2.2 Hide files and directories

    KoviD hides files and directories effectively by hijacking filldir and
    filldir64 kernel functions, significantly simplifying the process.

### 2.3 Function and syscall hijacking: Ftrace

    KoviD leverages Ftrace, a legitimate method for
    function and syscall hijacking in Kernel v5+.
    This approach offers greater stability compared
    to traditional hooking techniques.

### 2.4 Backdoors

    KoviD incorporates popular and reliable methods for backdooring systems,
    such as port-knocking with custom packets.
    These open connections to Netcat, OpenSSL, and Socat sessions.

### 2.5 Firewall Evasion

    KoviD sends magic packets and establishes reverse shell connections.
    These packets trigger netfilter hooks and instruct KoviD to create a
    reverse shell connection. These outgoing packets bypass iptables rules,
    ensuring effective evasion.

### 2.6 Tasks

    Hiding processes is a crucial feature, giving KoviD the
    ability to run undetected. It provides full support for
    children processes, ensuring that no hanging processes are left behind.

### 2.7 Logs

    KoviD's hidden tasks result in missing logs, making it
    even more challenging for administrators to detect its
    presence. It eliminates logs generated by userland tools
    like w, lsmod, ps, who, ls.

### 2.8 TCP/UDP logs

    KoviD hides network connections and manipulates network logs
    to maintain stealth. It also addresses issues with libpcap
    showing connections initiated before task hiding.

### 2.9 r00t

    Gain root privileges easily with kill -SIGCONT 666.

### 2.10 CPU - hiding/mining

    KoviD hides CPU consumption, making its processes invisible
    as heavy consumers. However, be cautious not to max out the CPU,
    as this can lead to unusual usage patterns.

### 2.11 Persistence

    KoviD offers persistence via Volundr. It can infect executables,
    like SSHD, to ensure KoviD loads on reboot. You can also use your
    preferred tool, Volundr use here is just a suggestion.

### 2.12 Base address

    KoviD allows for the retrieval of base addresses of other executables
    without needing to open /proc/<pid>/maps.

### 2.13 BPF

    KoviD can evade few anti-rootkit tools that rely on BPF
    (Berkeley Packet Filter) for detecting rootkits.

    Tested against:
        https://github.com/pathtofile/bpf-hookdetect.git

## 3 - Usage

    Before compiling and loading KoviD, edit the Makefile to choose a unique
    name for /proc/<name>. Compile and load KoviD using sudo insmod kovid.
    Ensure the chosen name for /proc/<name> is not easily predictable.

### 3.1 /proc/<name> interface

    To enable the /proc/mytest interface, use the command:
    $ kill -SIGCONT 31337.
    The interface will disable itself after 120 seconds and can be
    reactivated using the same command.

### 3.2 Tasks

    You can hide/unhide processes using the /proc/mytest interface.
    For example, to hide a task, run: $ echo 14886 >/proc/mytest.

### 3.3 Hide module

    To hide the KoviD module, use the command: `$ echo -h >/proc/mytest`.
    In release mode, the module is hidden by default,
    and a key can be displayed by running `$ cat /proc/mytest`.

### 3.4 Hide/unhide/list files and directories

    To hide a file or directory, use: $ echo '-a name' >/proc/mytest.
    To unhide, use: $ echo '-d name' >/proc/mytest. You can list hidden files
    and directory names with: $ echo listname >/proc/mytest.

### 3.5 SSH/FTP TTY sniffer

    KoviD can snoop SSH sessions via tty keystrokes and steal passwords
    and commands effectively.

### 3.6 Backdoors

    For instructions, run 'scripts/bdclient.sh' and a help list is displayed.

## 4 - Bugs

    As with any software, KoviD may have bugs.
    If you encounter issues or oopses, please report them in detail for
    potential fixes. Test KoviD extensively, preferably in a VM that
    mimics the target environment.

    Disclaimer: The use of KoviD in a real target is discouraged

